# ASJ 2025 monthly article views
Describes how to get monthly article views (both galley file downloads and in-screen full-text reads using the PDF.JS PDF Viewer) from OJS 3.3 using the API as one of the metrics for the SSHRC ASJ 2025 competition.

See [Readership data and impact measures]([url](https://sshrc-crsh.canada.ca/en/funding/opportunities/aid-scholarly-journals/2025/competition/instructions/applicant.aspx#20)) for more info.

## Comparison of data sources
* **Statistics > Articles**: this dashboard can be useful for doing things the long way. If you set the time from to the reporting period and then use the graphic interface to switch to Files and Monthly, you can mouse over the dots in the graphs to get the totals. As far as I can determine, this includes both full-text galley views in the OJS reader and downloads. Slow and kludgy, but functional.
* **Reports > Views**: draws from the same data as the above, but you can't limit the time period of the query and it only gives the grand total, so not helpful.
* **Reports > Custom Report Generator**: Article File Downloads looks like it's the answer to the request... except that it seems to only count downloads and not in-browser full-text views. So, if you use the Articles dashboard to provide "a sampling of article-level data (e.g., views and downloads) [or] the average number of full-text views for the top 20 articles," the numbers will be way off from the Custom Report Generator. I tried a few different approaches with the Advanced Options but I couldn't get it to cover downloads and in-browser full-text views. Ultimately, I don't think this is the best idea.
* **API**: Querying the /stats/publications/galley endpoint for the specified date range will get you the desired monthly stats and they agree with the numbers provided by Statistics > Articles and Reports > Views. Output is in JSON so you'll have to wrangle it. The code is contained in the Jupyter notebook in this repo. You could tweak it to iterate through a list of journals and API keys to put out individual files for a each in a set of journals, too. It's also fairly easy to get the abstract views as well by adapting this code to that endpoint.
* **Reports > COUNTER Reports**: under the Older Site Reports heading, the first bullet point is for "Journal Report 1 (R3): Full-Text Article Requests by Month and Journal" and it downloads CSV files of total monthly article views (download and in-browser full-text) for each year. The numbers agree with the API and the first two sources as well. This might be the easiest option for some users, especially if you're directing the editors to pull their own stats.
